# Final Reflection
    Taking COMP 170 this summer was a sort of spur-of-the moment decision for me as a Data Science major; truthfully I am not really a big "programming person", so I had some reservations about the course. I can say with confidence that I do not regret taking this class, but I do have some regrets about how I approached it.

    Beginning with the negatives, my two weakest points this semester were assignment timeliness (more) and attendance (less). I certainly missed more classes than I meant to, but did my best to show up on time, review code and reading materials ahead of time, and stay consistent (not missing large portions at a time). In class, if I was not actively taking notes I was following along with the live coding in my own codespace. Outside of class, I did extra reading and problems to help with concepts that I did not understand. The drawback of this is that it often bled into the time I should've been spending on assignments, and in my short-sightedness I didn't give myself the proper resources to complete some of them. I am frankly embarrassed about that, and realize that they are integral to the course. There are a few occasions where I had issues syncing/committing my code (for some assignments I am still not sure if you can see them), but the responsibility for that lays solely with me. It feels like a cliche thing to say, but I did always try my best with what I had; I just was not great at giving myself enough.

    Moving into the things I did well, I feel as though I was engaged and focused in class, and did my best to improve my coding skills. While the lectures were not very participation-heavy, I did my best to always be prepared to answer questions; even if I was not called on, I would think about what I would say and write it down in my notes. In order to be fully engaged, I limited my distractions by having my phone in a different room and joining class from a designated study space (if COVID taught me anything, it's that your at-home learning environment is of utmost importance). Because of the quiet nature of our class, there were a few times where I probably should've spoken up about a question I had, but I did use my time outside of class to figure these things out. For our assignments, I truthfully struggled a lot with Python. Being a Data Sci major I am the most familiar with coding in R, and it took a lot of intention not to approach coding in Python the same way I would if I were using R. There were many times that I would look on Stack Overflow or similar platforms if I was especially struggling, but I always made sure to fully understand the logic of the code before turning it in. This was actually very helpful for getting a better understanding of the language, as I find reverse-engineering code to be a lot less daunting than starting entirely from scratch. Having access to each weeks' homeworks' solutions was also incredibly helpful for getting more comfortable with the syntax and logic of the language, and I did my best to internalize the conventions and apply them to my own code. The weekly reflections were a valuable exercise in self-improvement, and I see myself continuing to use these strategies (because you can always get better at everything you do). I am proud of the progress that I made, even if it is not as much as I initially expected it to be.

    If I could go back in time and take a different approach to this course, I would go into it with a more open mind. One of my biggest mistakes was being too caught up in "getting" everything at once (missing the forest for the trees), which made a lot of things more frustrating than they needed to be. Part of the learning process is having no idea what you're doing, and this course was a valuable opportunity for me to become more comfortable with that fact. The "ungrading" portion of the course was also a new and uncomfortable experience for me, but I am grateful for it. It is certainly very different from the typical rigid rubriks I am used to, and while initially the looser expectations made me anxious they served to make me more self-aware and conscious of my work (hopefully we don't disagree about it too much!). I do not think I could say that I am proud of my performance in your class (and for that I truly do apologize), but shortcomings are opportunities for growth and I hope to use the lessons I learned to improve as a coder and a student in the future.

    Based on the above, I propose C as my final grade. Thank you so much for your sharing your knowledge with me this term, and perhaps I will see you again in COMP 271.
